llaaghanwa      ???; ! and so (particle)
naqam      ???; ! consequent to the fact that ... (particle)
qemall      ???; ! finally; it might happen (particle)
kii      ???; ! gee!, oh! (particle)
ental      ???; ! go ahead then; come on then (particle)
aga      ???; ! gone; not here (particle, from demonstrative aagna I aga)
taagken      ???; ! henceforth (particle from ablative modalis of anaphoric demonstrative adverb taagna I taaga)
yeqay      ???; ! let's do that (particle)
esghaghhu      ???; ! look; consider (particle; actually this is the transitive optative of esghagh )
qule      Noun; ! area above; upper part
kelu      Noun; ! area back from sea
kelute      Noun; ! area back from sea
asi      Noun; ! area below; lower part
saaqw      Noun; ! area beside
ilu      Noun; ! area inside; interior
kete      Noun; ! area toward sea
repall      Noun; ! as a result of strong action
kingu      Noun; ! back part; stern of boat; time after
aleq      Noun; ! companion; other of pair (3rd person possessor possessed form is, irregularly, aallgha rather than*aalgha)
unug       Noun; ! for night to fall (optional impersonal agent transitive verb)
sivu      Noun; ! front part; bow of boat; time before
angayuqaq*      Noun; ! parent; boss
anglegun      Noun; ! sibling
qilak      Noun; ! sky; heavens
qevuute       Noun; ! to act or be acted upon to the maximum extent possible (agentive)
lliigh       Noun; ! to become a certain way (optional impersonal agent transitive verb)
ketfagh       Noun; ! to bring out; to go far out to sea (patientive)
apeghiigh       Noun; ! to finish or be finished (agentive)
aghtugh       Noun; ! to not be able to bear; to not be able to do (to)(agentive)
aghuliigh       Noun; ! to stop motion (patientive)
iiyaq      Noun; ! ventilator in house
maaten      ???; ! once; on one occasion (particle phrase from maaten 'now' and ilangani 'meanwhile'
nepiigh       VerbIntr; ! to fall silent (intransitive only)
tenge       VerbIntr; ! to fly off; to take off in flight (intransitive only)
atghagh       VerbIntr; ! to go down toward the water (intransitive only)
taglagh       VerbIntr; ! to go up away from the water (intransitive only)
taku       VerbTrans; ! to approach on purpose (transitive only)
uutghute       VerbTrans; ! to bring back; to change one's mind about (transitive only)
